the internet nobody truly understands
the Internet and it's commonly said that
it was invented by former vice president
of the United States Al Gore but why why
Al Gore
why did you invent the Internet the true
answer is no it wasn't to resist nuclear
weapons assault from Russia
no it wasn't so that one day in the
future if it turns out that water
fluoridation actually does render all of
us impotent we can reorganize
civilization from the tiny fragments of
people surviving and the rural
peripheral America no it's not for any
kind of post-apocalyptic nightmare the
internet was invented so that we could
do reaction videos on YouTube and it's
very reassuring to know that after World
dead and gone our momentary reactions to
seeing YouTube videos preserved in the
form of YouTube videos will live on so
here we go the title for this video is
the best worst thing in the world the
best right so this was sent to you in an
email from your brother and we're just
about to hit play up and I can so
anytime you want to pause you know what
to do you just click you just click here
okay
humans love meat steak fried chicken
bacon pork belly and sausages are just
the best things eating meat has become
so trivial that many people don't
consider something a proper meal if
there's no animal involved which is
pretty amazing since only a few decades
ago meat was a luxury product today you
can get a cheeseburger for a dollar
paradoxically meat is pretty much the
most inefficient way of feeding humans
if we look at it on a global scale our
meaty diet is literally eating up the
planet why is that and what can we do
about it without giving up steak that's
always that's always the question here
without actually going vegan what can
you do to change I know most vegans
would think like at this point having it
is 42 seconds into the track where they
go up to this point
vegans agree with it but I don't you
know like even at this point if you okay
the title is why meat is the best worst
thing about have you heard of cocaine
have you heard but like seriously I
can't believe anyone just lacks the
strength of character to resist eating
meat and we locate here in Victoria we
live in a beautiful city Victoria
British Columbia Canada every day we
walk past crackheads and some days
they're smoking crack right in front of
you so like it's not like I'm making you
know you pass by people who lack the
reserves of self-discipline or fortitude
or strength of character to resist you
know those kinds of drugs yeah so how
can you know to me it's a joke you know
I know what it's like to eat meat I eat
meat when I was a kid I was a teenager
so no even that I mean even that basic
premise that this is somehow this kind
of irresistible deeply satisfying thing
for mankind
I don't even you know I don't even
concede that well people do I think not
me but yep right people do stay again
okay so I hate I hate to lapse into
Latin but prima facie they do would you
say at first glance right if you just
even asked them that question like okay
come on
on a scale of one to ten if you're gonna
put hookers and cocaine at one end like
where you can't tell me this is a 9.5
you cannot tell me that the difference
between so just today we ate of a vegan
hamburger that was made out of mostly
atsuki beans yeah another crap you know
the difference between that and a beef
based hamburger you can't tell me that's
up at the cocaine and hookers end of the
spec
you can't at everybody look at whatever
I only have a daughter I don't have a
son if I have a son I've got to tell him
straight to his face you guess what your
challenge in life you know includes
refusing refusing all these temptations
and more little revenge that's another
one I like to mention anyone who reads
ancient literature any kind of
pre-modern literature literature earlier
than 1950 revenge
is one of the things human beings desire
most and they find most gratifying and
we have to teach all our sons and
daughters no no no don't don't go for
the gratification of revenge don't take
revenge in your enemies yeah well I just
think it's easier for people to accept
meat as like an enticing thing that is
that is actually bad but it's it's a you
know conceivable that you can get away
with it rather than like you know like
cocaine and hookers I I'm sorry I'm not
okay maybe I'm naive maybe I'm just I
think quite a large percentage of people
have never employed a hooker yeah I
think you're nice but most people have
eaten okay I've two words for you
Bill Clinton yes or no what do you come
on Bill Clinton cocaine and hookers yes
or no okay the entire elite level of the
Republican Party you you really think
they're pure compared to Bill Clinton
really they have cheaper hookers and
less quality cocaine I kid you not I kid
you not know I mean this stuff is
epidemic it really is I'm sorry you have
seen it in a third-world country you
know you've seen it in sorry okay I
shouldn't call Thailand a third-world
country I guess you've seen it in
Thailand I mean the scale right the
scale of that industry there and it's
open there you can see it you can take a
census of it right in other countries
where it's concealed it's a little bit
harder to come to hunt come to a sense
of its size right but no I mean these
these sins I mean ultimately I'm against
them because they're self-destructive
for the people who engage them I've ever
told you so I had a friend of me I'm
gonna have to use a fake fake name for
him tom
so if your rename is actually Tom I'm
not talking about
I knew a guy named Tom and the first
girlfriend he ever had you know
well that's sorry the first sectors
version was it was frost it was a bought
and paid for affair and it was
specifically for Filipino ethnically
Filipino prostitutes who I think
probably didn't speak all that much
English yeah and it warped him I can't
say I didn't know him that long can't
say it warped him for life but I mean
like more than ten years of his whole
view of reality and relations between
the sexes so I don't even know if he was
sixteen or eighteen or something when he
did that I don't know and he mean in a
very real sense it corrupted him I don't
I don't know what impact it had on the
prostitute probably none she probably
doesn't even remember him he was you
know okay anyway but I'm just saying the
impact but my point is my point is
before is this the impact of cocaine on
the cocaine user is one of concern about
not the cocaine dealer it's my personal
thing the impact of prostitution on the
you know the prostitution use it that's
actually what I'm questioning here there
are course questions about the impact
for the prostitute herself okay and for
society itself for the deal there and
for the farmers the cocaine for me at
the dinner table with their mom and dad
when they're little kids right growing
up they don't snort cocaine with their
parents people don't you know right
share the fun of great hooker I know I
know so and look you know this that's
why I'm that's why I'm really against
the legalization normalization of
marijuana this way yeah is that now you
do have people smoking marijuana with
their parents you're gonna have you know
people smoking marijuana and all kind of
situation that it being normalized to
that extent so yeah I agree I agree
there's a taboo element there there's no
doubt but all I'm saying is by putting
meat into this category
you know the sinful but impossible to
resist things I think it's totally wrong
and you know to me I'm look to me eating
meat is not enjoyable period maybe I'm
very new
whatever doesn't matter but even if it
is enjoyable like the degree of
enjoyment and how that's different from
eating a veggie burger etc yeah this has
got to be measured out in inches and
it's in no way comparable to I mean in
terms of Noma terms of the demons the
dominate human nature whether that's
lust Envy revenge drug-induced high you
know will to outdo other people and so
on you know I mean like I just say I
don't sure I don't know 30 seconds but I
just want to say you know there is a
show I think on TLC my strange addiction
people can be addicted to anything but I
don't think it's that comment to say
that people are addicted to steak like
they would be cocaine like they would be
you know the satisfaction yeah right sex
right right you know yeah
right right so look my point is we look
at a guy like Bill Clinton and we say
why can't you quit
no it's an hour today today Bill Clinton
is president right it's Bill Clinton
right exactly
right right no right right right exactly
that's exactly it
no today ironically Bill Clinton is
vegan so we know this from multiple
sources there multiple sources that
confirm that Bill Clinton is a dietary
vegan I don't know if he still wears
leather but he eats a vegan diet right
but you look at this guy and think you
have all this power and all this
responsibility why can't you keep your
dick in your pants why can't you give up
the sensual pleasures of whatever you
know this these these you know ludicrous
and lewd and you know these Affairs that
lack any and the answer is he can't for
him it was the most meaningful thing in
the world obviously this was an
overpowering priority in his life now he
is Donald Trump that much different I
don't know we get pretty conflicting
reports about Donald Trump in his sex
life you know some of them are in court
right now I don't know but you know what
percentage of the Republican Party or
the Democrat Party phone to that camp
and you know poverty
poverty is not virtue trust me you can
meet poor people who are straight-up
scum I told you about that guy
I'd have to make up another I told you
but the guy an American guy I met in
Thailand he was poor I wish I could stay
he was straight at a Compton but he was
actually from Chicago he was from a gang
background in Chicago that was all he
did he is scheduled every year I mean
guys turn somebody devoted to the game
of just sleeping with as many women as
possible
he would get a temp job in an office and
worked for maybe three months four
months five months at a time save up all
his money spend nothing during that time
and then go on vacation for six months
and try to sleep with as many women as
possible and then go back to the States
and repeat the cycle yeah
and for him this is the other thing as
the contrast he is only ethical
principle his only ethical principle was
that he'd never pay for it he never paid
a prostitute oh yeah right right no but
that no but that was it like think he
was a total scumbag otherwise you know I
saw him I saw him trying to try to hit
on women I pick up whenever but it was
just funny it almost seemed like maybe
it would be better like I mean you know
you may be better if you did pay these
women because that's all you are
I mean you're you're both a sex tourist
and a freeloader like you're like a
total total parasite on the system
anyway yeah the only time I thought that
wow maybe it would be a moral
improvement for you to be you know for
you to pay at the door anyway yeah so
yeah I can take it but my point is you
can be poor and you can be devoted to
the life of senses ultimately life of
the body versus life of the mind either
you care about virtue or you don't
pardon me either you care about virtue
or you don't disappear Lee and if you do
care about virtue in some sense quitting
meat I mean I hate Bill Clinton he
managed to quit meat yeah
but perhaps not some of the things
humans keep a lot of animals for food
currently about 23 billion chickens 1.5
billion cattle and roughly 1 billion
pigs and sheep that's a lot of mouths to
feed so we've transformed earth into a
giant feeding ground 83% of its farmland
is used for livestock for example is
pasture and to farm photo crops like
corn and soy that's 26 percent of
Earth's total land area if we include
the water we need for these plants meat
and dairy production accounts for 27% of
global freshwater consumption
unfortunately meat production is like a
black hole for resources since animals
are living things most of their food is
used to keep them alive while they grow
they're tasty parts only a fraction of
the nutrients from photo crops end up in
the meat we buy in the end cows for
example convert only about 4% of the
proteins and 3% of the calories of the
plants we feed to them into beef so I
just ask at this point already
we're still less than the video it's the
cows fault for not being energy
efficient it's the cows fault they're
only using 3% in to meet up ok so let's
just say even if this is it so your
brother sent you this why is it your
brother vegan like what's the whole
thoughts like ok so we're a minute and
54 into this there's already a good
enough rationale here to be vegan like
so what so what do you know or ok if
you're not gonna be vegan eat meat once
a year he said that he has really
drastically reduces okay consumption ok
so his position is now that he's
introduced ethereum is it ok that's what
he said the last time I talked ok I
don't you know you know I regard such
things in skepticism ok I just say no I
do look at this like well ok then why
not why not even if this is the only
region
yeah I know but isn't this isn't this
sufficient rationale already to just
eliminate meat from your own
more than 97% of the calories are lost
to us to create one kilogram of steak a
cow needs to eat up to 25 kilos of grain
and uses up to 15,000 liters of water
animal products are guzzling up tons of
food but they only make up 18 percent of
the calories humans eat according to
projections we could nourish an
additional 3.5 billion people if we just
ate the stuff we feed to animals to make
our favorite food group even more
unsustainable about 15 percent of all
greenhouse gas emissions caused by
humans are created by the meat industry
as much as by all ships planes trucks
and cars combined so I just mentioned I
never made a video about this for
different reasons
I got email from one of the people at a
United Nations partner agency and I just
mentioned that United Nations partner
agency is not the same as really
technically being inside the United
Nations there's a there's a difference
there there's that there's a little bit
of a separation of powers there but they
were involved with the creation of most
of those famous statistics about what
percentage of greenhouse gases and so on
and so forth and he told me the human
story behind it
I think the first report was called meat
and dairies longshadow there's this
series of UN affiliated reports but he
said look all of them you're gonna
notice as the senior editor or guy in
chief there's the same name appearing
again again he said what I actually
happened was that the first report was
the one that came out with the most
hard-hitting numbers with her own 50% of
greenhouse gases five oh yeah was web so
you may have seen right and then the
later reports that guy him personally he
doesn't so far as we know he isn't paid
by the meters he isn't paid by the meat
industry I'm not saying as a show not
sayings we're working for anyone else
his personal crusade is to increase meat
production in third world countries and
now although I'm vegan and I totally
opposed that I totally understand a
summon with a UN
background would take that view would
kind of see the view that third world
countries are disadvantaged you need to
need to catch up in meat production I
can actually sympathize with that view
even though it is really sympathy for
the devil so in the later iterations of
these reports in the sequel's he was
pushing and pushing to get the numbers
minimized and now just lately we finally
had the antidote so the numbers
mysteriously got lower and lower
well the underlying data didn't change
okay and sorry I just imagine how do you
do that the real question is of doing
something I talked about on this channel
all the time over the last four years
full lifecycle analysis so you don't
just look at one stage of a process but
you look at many stages you know so I
you look at not just the the death of
the cow but also the shipping of the
meat the ship the emissions created by
shipping the food that's fed to the cow
from the from so you include more and
more stages okay and thus include
knock-on effects include total
environmental impacts so you try to do
the full full lifecycle analysis full
Squatch analysis anyway there's this new
report now I think it is a 2018
publication which has it way up at 70%
savings and land use if we eliminate
meat from our diets if all of humanity
and so I think 72 percent is less news I
figure so a new researcher went through
and did all the math fresh using much
more thorough and he's come to those to
a new set of numbers which are very much
what's in the press today so it is it is
a funny situation where exactly the same
set of raw data has been calculated and
recalculated but interestingly the same
kind of United Nations partner agencies
you get you get conflicting data and the
other big international port which I
think is not a United Nations affiliate
you know where the water or footprint
reports and those are good those are
really solid data and again it's a
matter of including every stage of the
the process right and the irony is what
the water footprint reports show you is
that factory farming really is more
efficient the worst views of what the
most waste of water resources is like
right exactly the more natural the more
primitive the more full
fashion is where as producing you know
beef pound-for-pound in a factory farm
it is more efficient that's why they do
it yeah and that shows up in watery
statistics when they're when they're
correctly computed that shows up invoice
so you're using less water to produce
the same number of pounds of beef or
steak what have you yeah do damage that
is a funny little thing boiling away the
backer but that guy sent me a bunch of
email I think he really wanted me to
make a hard-hitting You Tube video kind
of taking his story and going public
with it but for various reasons I did
not want to do that and there's another
aspect to meet it comes from actual
living beings pigs cattle and chicken
and of the ones writing the history
books but if they were humans would
appear as rampant genocide 'el maniacs
that thrive on suffering globally we
kill about 200 million animals every day
about 74 billion a year this means that
every one and a half years we kill more
animals than people have lived in the
entire 200,000 year history of humanity
one could argue that we're doing them a
favor
after all they wouldn't exist without us
we might eat them in the end but we also
provide food and shelter and the gift of
existence to them until the day they're
killed
you know pigs are now increasingly being
killed in gas chambers gas chambers now
you know when this comes up yeah right
right well but I assume this is leading
up to some kind of grim reality check
for the audience but you know this comes
up also in the the ongoing controversy
between Isaac and Sam Harris so I
believe Sam Harris used to be a hero of
Isaac's I think he used to look up to
him
I think Isaac and correct me if I'm
wrong but whatever but you know Isaac
God in the audience and put a question
as Harris and you know basically asking
you know veganism man up bro you know
yeah veganism name name the trait bro
whatever you want to say
ain't no Sam Harris his response is it
is like this angelic figure excuse here
well what if their lives are a net
positive you know so like in what in
what sense but but ironically we'd never
use that excuse of humans I mean look
you know you just saw this ridiculous
dialogue I had with my mother about
slavery it's very easy to make a net
positive argument for slavery to say
well the slaves are exploited but they
still have all these wonderful things in
their lives and you can catalogue all
the good things in their lives food
shelter clothing education whatever I
mean you could you can vindicate slavery
by listing all they whatever they still
get to have sex they still get to walk
around outdoors they get to do all kinds
of things farm animals don't get to do
right you can list what a wonderful life
slaves have in a particular thing and
say well it's a net positive we don't we
don't use that standard for anything
yeah the net positive argument is not
used for hey you know what your brother
he was falsely convicted of murder and
spent ten years in prison and he wasn't
he wasn't even remotely guilty he was
actually they were mixed up to people's
names on the same name he went to prison
for a crime he didn't commit he had
nothing to do with but you know it's
still in that positive when he was in
jail he got to read books he got food
and shelter it's still a net positive
you know nobody nobody uses this
standard for anything but you know yeah
yeah yeah he's an atheist activist but
when in reality he's really a Buddhist
he is really a pro Buddhist person I was
just gonna say that is kind of like a
Christian attitude to say that like
every life is sacred
yeah because right you know don't avoid
getting right
unintended unplanned break right yeah I
met a guy who did a people who are
really deeply Christian well think like
it's it's every life is sacred so even
if you have 10 kids and they all live in
poverty and horrible lives well that's
better than having one planned yep
child for you know and have that child
get all the attention all the food yeah
a shelter and care I mean that's and
it's it's gonna make your [ __ ] never get
both the reality is there is a sense in
which life is kind of always a net
positive I knew a guy I didn't know him
well he was another student of my
university he went to prison for being a
critic of the government being a
political critic of the government as I
recall in Iran but he was put in a
prison where everyone else also was a
political dissident and a critic of the
government he was in a prison full of
quite erudite people you know it wasn't
like he was with the normal thieves and
what-have-you
I'm sorry if I miss remember I think he
was an Iranian prisoner of conscience or
whatever you want to say and he said
openly he said that his time in prison
was the most positive and inspiring
period of his life and this is an
Iranian prison I think it was very tough
conditions very meager food and some
degree of torture and whipping involved
yeah but still and he spent all his time
around these kind of you know
intellectuals and what-have-you and he
was reading and being inspired and he
felt very positive about it
so what it's it doesn't it doesn't
vindicate you know putting people in
prison for crimes they're not guilty of
or political prisoners of conscience or
no it is the net positive argument is
neither right nor wrong it's spurious I
mean so what if this cow is the happiest
cow imaginable in its concrete shed not
being able to see the sky and with the
horrible conditions if you actually had
a cow that was so stupid and so
disassociated from its instincts that it
was happy in those conditions you could
- what are you indicating it's just
insane to me and what happiness is
irrelevant net positive is irrelevant
it's just bizarre to me yeah the life
itself without right without the
trappings that
you require as write whatever creature
you are right that's why I think it's
it's so sad for so many dogs to be
living in people's houses like they
aren't living how they should be like
free to do what a dog would do they're
they're trained from from birth to be
house pets they're trained you know sit
sit on the couch right all right poo
when they are taken outside whenever
their owner
yes it's convenient for their owner to
take them outside right yell that if
they pee on the floor whatever you know
I mean it's it's horrible this is not
natural it's not it's not good for for
any animal to be in a environment that
they're not supposed to be in and you
know I think though you start to stay on
a very right-wing if you talk about
liberty that way that liberty includes
also the right to risk your own life you
know the freedom of the dog in the woods
or whatever the freedom to scavenge the
freedom to starve the freedom to
struggle the freedom to die and you know
whatever I start talking about dignity
whether its dignity and animal life or
dating a human life a significant
percent of a significant percentage of
my audience starts freaking out people
can't deal with many people cannot deal
with the dignity discourse which is
coming to my channel you know many many
times so you know I just say there's an
even kind of simpler criterion here
which is just what what what we is
justified what could possibly justify
this no I know for you freedom
especially I know this is just an aspect
of your character that you really care
about dignity personally you know living
and dignified life being treated in a
dignified way in a respectful way yeah
and you know it's it's not hard to see
how that would transcend to other
creatures right would you like to be you
know dragged along on a leash I mean
like I can't go outside without seeing
somebody with her dog like and the dog
wants to sniff at the grass and they're
like no no and they pull on their Liege
and roll on their neck I mean it's like
I know
every three seconds when you're walking
a dog I mean I've never owned a dog but
you know you can just see that that's
that's what they want to do they want on
me they want to act like a dog yeah
right right the moment that they see
another dog they go nuts because they
want their their pack animals they want
to be with other dogs but they're being
reminded constantly no no you're a toy
you're a human plaything yeah that's
supposed to act like a dog yeah anyway
sorry right no but look I just say I
think I think questioning that in terms
of dignity is something I often do but
many people in this culture can't deal
with dignity reasoning that involves the
concept of dignity so there's this other
question of just are you holding up a
spurious standard a standard that's not
viable like ie the idea that life is
still something so valuable that it's
still valuable even if you live it in a
prison for a crime you didn't commit
I'm sorry but that is pretty parallel
we're talking about whether whether it's
the domesticated dog you know which
lives part of its life in a cage and
part on chains and whatever you know in
confinement having its balls chopped off
being you know Kendall to Castro and
everything else or you're talking about
the animal in the factory farm they are
in many ways like prisoners being
punished for a crime they didn't commit
and I I totally believe there are human
beings who've been falsely imprisoned
who in a sense and that a meaningful
life in prison I mean maybe you're in
prison
and you read philosophy and you know
yeah this in some ways rewarding life
guess what
putting you in prison is still wrong you
know it's still bad and even wrong and
again people always want to sit back oh
well but if this dog wasn't castrated
and trained and broken and on a leash
and in a cage then it would have starved
to death in the forest
so what yes you don't have to change
right what I just sit back is you know
what 100 the the the mortality rate for
wild animals is 100 percent 100 percent
of wild animals die in the wild nobody
survives whether they live for
six months or two years or four years
you're right
all wild animals die they either dive
disease or predation or starvation some
some other animal eats them or they eat
the wrong animal and get poison and die
yeah that's life in the wild you know
anyway but it's it would be the same if
you talked about someone being falsely
put in prison and you act for some
reason you actually do well if he hadn't
been put in prison he would have only
lived for a couple of years a diet like
that's quite possible you'd know that
yeah instead he had a longer life
because he was in prison due to whatever
so what it's still wrong you know anyway
so yeah unfortunately we're not very
nice gods a lot of our meat comes from
factory farms huge industrial systems
that house thousands of animals
engineered to be as efficient as
possible they have little regard for
things like quality of life most pigs
are raised in gigantic windowless sheds
and never get to see the Sun sows are
kept in pens too small to turn around
where they give birth to one litter of
piglets
are for another until it's their turn to
be turned into bacon I don't see how
people respond to the basic facts by
eating meat only once a day or four
times a week or only on Thursday what
does it say about you I mean you know
there's a real sense in which this is
not about making a judgment on the
animals it's a judgment on you what kind
of person are you gonna be man dairy
cows are forced to breathe continually
to ensure their milk supply but are
separated from their calves hours after
birth to fatten up beef cattle for
slaughter
they're put in feedlots confined pens
where they can't roam and put on weight
more quickly to make it possible to keep
them so tightly together without dying
of diseases the majority of antibiotics
we use are for livestock up to 80%
in the US which helps in the short-term
but also fuels antibiotic resistance
--is but the ones that may have got the
worst deal are chickens in factory farms
they're kept in such vast numbers and so
close to each other that they can't form
the social structures they have in
nature so they start attacking each
other to stop that we cut their beaks
and claws male chickens are deemed
worthless since they can't lay eggs and
are not suitable for meat production so
within minutes after birth
they're usually gassed and shredded in
grinders several hundred million baby
chickens are killed this way each year
even if you had a personal score to
settle with chickens how we treat them
is beyond broken so better buy organic
meat where animals are treated nicely
right organic farming regulations are
designed to grant animals a minimum of
comfort the problem is that organic is
an elastic term right and shout-out to
Harrison Nathan whom I completely
despise but he wrote an article putting
together the shocking stats about this
that I hadn't seen before actually
actually free-range chickens are worse
off than caged chickens if you don't
believe me look it up that includes
simply the rate of death of what is
called in the industry suffering to
death that's an industry term that's not
a vegan terms on activist term the
percentage of chickens that die because
they're pecked to death by their
chickens or die because they starve or
die because they're trampled by other
chickens or died from other bizarre and
Clemen things that happen in the so
called free-range paradigm the chickens
seem to be constantly miserable
constantly attacking each other and
dying of these various shall we say
circumstantial causes whereas in the
cages they're safe and they're
relatively comfortable and not stressed
out and so I says believe me I'm vegan
I don't think don't eat either type of
chicken but actually it is a very bitter
irony to face up to that the so the
free-range the genuine free-range
chickens are worse off than the caged
ones and one of the other entities is
that the rate of them suffer
death is so high that significantly more
chickens are being tortured to produce
the same number of pounds of chicken
meat because such a significant
percentage of them are dying in this way
so it's bizarre but believe it or not
yeah it ain't poultry paradise organic
farming regulations are designed to
grant animals a minimum of comfort the
problem is that organic is an elastic
term according to EU regulations an
organic hen still might share one square
meter of space with five others that's a
long way off from happy farmyard
chickens farms that sincerely do their
best do exist of course but meat is
still a business an organic label is a
way to charge more money and countless
scandals have revealed producers looking
for ways to achieve the system and while
organic meat might be less cruel it
needs even more resources than
conventional meat production so buying
organic is still preferable but does not
grant you moral absolution the truth is
if suffering were a resource we would
create billions of tons of it per year
the way we treat animals will probably
be one of the things future generations
will look down on in disgust while all
these things are true something else is
true too steak is amazing so this was my
this was my minute one within the first
minute this is my reaction no no no no I
don't think he's gonna say I do not
think he's gonna say none of it matters
and I say that sorry
okay on a scale of one to ten cocaine
and hookers I mean what am I gonna tell
you like put it or if you claim this
about eating a hamburger and that it's
so different from eating a veggie burger
like you know it's a little bit
different we both ate a veggie burger
today you ate two it is slightly
different from eating an animal-based
veggie burger it's actually it contains
zero cholesterol the fat to protein
ratio is better it's less greasy I can
remember I can remember having fat
lining the inside of your mouth it's
horrible and even the stench of cooking
this stuff I don't feel I know stop
eating you realize I know I mean I don't
think I know crazy like you don't really
can feel that it makes your body just
yeah well yeah but you have a weird
tragedy through your body after after
eating this kind of stuff yes okay but
like even if you concede the point that
there's something slightly more
enjoyable about a real dead animal-based
hamburger versus a vegan amber which I
don't think is that easy to concede but
let's concede it how does this compare
to all the things we accept and we
expect Bill Clinton to refuse we expect
Bill Clinton to be morally upstanding in
self-disciplined and turned down all of
these pleasures of the senses and even
Bill Clinton can be vegan he can do it
he's obviously got weaknesses for
sensory for the pleasures of the senses
of the pleasures of the flesh that's the
way to put it the pleasures of the flesh
but this ain't it bro if you're willing
to make this level of excuse for such
such a trivial indulgence what are you
not willing to excuse what what lying
can you draw if you can't draw this line
you know I don't get it
burgers are the best food chicken wings
taste great meat satisfies something
buried deep in our lizard brain we
hardly ever see how our meat is made we
just eat it and love it it creates joy
it brings us together for family meals
and barbecue parties eating meat doesn't
make you a bad person not eating meat
doesn't make you a good one sure would
you say that even most cigars
so Melissa say you've never smoked a
cigar like uh you know just a
straight-up like a Cuban cigar or
someone cuz some good quality cigar
brothers PhD graduation briefly I heard
that you might vomit if you actually
like okay but look my point is this if
if
we concede that smoking a cigar is
pleasant and a very large percentage of
people find a cigar a good voice of art
are pleasant something about the taste
the aroma the the drug high because it
does you get you know you get nicotine
from it if we say that's Pleasant
why it's not hard for us to say yeah you
know what there's a moral difference you
know smoking a cigar it's true it's not
quite as simple as saying smoking a
cigar makes you a bad person but we
expect people if you're a morally good
person to recognize your
responsibilities and quit smoking
tobacco whether that's a cheaper or
cigarette or expensive cigars or
something in between to say hey you know
what this may be pleasant it may be
enjoyable but there are a bunch of
reasons just including your own
integrity while you have to quit yeah it
makes you bad person so you know I have
a daughter someday in the future 10
years from now she's gonna be dating a
young man when she brings home her
boyfriend to introduce to me if he's
smoking cigarettes do I judge him or not
of course yeah of course you do and know
it doesn't automatically make him a bad
person yeah theoretically find some
historical example someone who was a
wonderful human being in 10 other ways
but they smoked cigarettes still that's
one way in which they're they're really
not a good person and it is a red flag
and it does tell you other bad things
about their character same with
compulsive gambling you can be a good
person to in other ways but if you're a
compulsive gambler
that tells me something bad about you
you know it does it cuts deep
so what given these facts why would the
complete conclusion be eating meat
doesn't make you a bad person that's
participating in this system does write
you a bad person what like choosing what
does right exactly right so I mean you
don't know but a real card is yours you
know if you live in the United States I
do not think that paying your taxes
makes you a bad person and some people
do take that position they say well if
you pay taxes and then the government
uses the taxes to bomb unknown country x
y&z to carry out wars around the world
with your tax money yeah well no you
don't you can you know I mean that there
are alternatives there are there sorry
there are people there are conscientious
objectors who don't and you know yeah
there are people whom that's um
cause I I don't take that position I
think you know you can talk about duties
and obligations and say hey you live in
a Democratic Society well but also
things like you drive your car on the
roads you should pay your taxes to pave
the roads this kind of thing you know
you shouldn't try to be a free rider
these days but sure I understand why
some people want to take a moral stand
and not pay taxes you know because they
were against the war or they've got some
particular war they're against all the
wars whatever the case might be
so refusing to pay taxes does not make
you a good person I was it but what what
do you mean how can you possibly not
come to an ethical judgment on the
refusal to eat meat okay and like
imagine this scenario would you say that
somebody is a more morally upstanding
citizen if everything is the same all
the checkmarks are the same except this
person refuses to eat meat wouldn't you
say that person is more moral than the
person who doesn't refuse to you goes
along with his identical twin brother
who is living the same life in every
other way wouldn't you say oh except for
this one factor I'm sure yeah we
encountered that even like I think
especially in China it seemed to be like
more right respected when somebody when
you told somebody that they would be
like oh well like you know they would
see that as part of a positive thing
about your character about others yeah I
don't understand why you know yeah why
are you trying to make this non ethical
yeah I mean yeah yeah
life is complicated and so is the world
we've created well it's complicated so
how should we deal with the fact that
meat is extremely unsustainable and a
sort of horrible torture for now the
easiest option is opting out more often
taking a meat-free day per week already
makes a difference if you want to eat
meat produce with the less suffering try
to buy from trusted producers with a
good track record even if it costs more
so that's it man that's it all comes
down to was ethical meat is yuppie
[ __ ] and you know if it wasn't what
meat-free Mondays like rape free Fridays
or something
slavery free Tuesdays you know if you're
against it why is there not like people
who are reducing their intake aren't
against it in principle people who
actually become vegan and those who
don't
it's just ultimately about whether you
care enough about it to do it or not
really ultimately that's the only thing
that I can just not argue against when
somebody says they don't care enough to
just completely caught me I mean I guess
I should laud their efforts to reduce me
but I but I don't because I don't log a
bhag receipt I don't have a lot of
hypocrisy or half-measures
I don't log cowardice either I mean you
know it's [ __ ] but look yeah you
gotta also ask if this isn't okay what
is the most you can do and what is the
least you can do if if being vegan isn't
the least you can do what is not
everybody can quit their job and become
a full-time vegan activist you and I
just attempted to quit our full-time
jobs go back to college trained in a
totally new discipline totally new
career path so that we could be full
time vegan activists we tried we tried
to start a totally new career so that we
could be full time vegan activist and as
of this date this is the last few days
of September in 2018 it looks like we're
not trying again because that college is
more California booked out you guys can
see the other videos in this channel for
details not everybody can do that
the vast majority of people cannot quit
their job and become a full-time vegan
activist no question so there's a
question of the most you can do but
there's also a question of the least you
can do Wow
I I doubt you know it's all gonna say I
mean look not everyone can do something
to help end the cocaine epidemic which
way you might think of his activism or
running a rehab center there are a
million ways you could do something
positive the least you can do is
completely abstain from cocaine
completely refuse to pay for or use
cocaine that is the least you can do and
I think it's a real question for us what
can we do to fight back against the drug
culture and I think all parents think
about it you may not if you're single
with no kids once you have kids you
maybe start looking at the world
thinking wow I do not want to raise my
kids in a place where yeah drug use is
just rampant and profit all around like
what can I do about this you know so you
start to ask possibly there's a question
of the most you can do but there's also
question of though for now enjoy your
steak but also respect it and if you can
make it something special again how can
you enjoy dupr committing an evil act
and what what you know what is the point
and what is the do you remember we saga
we were in Thailand and we were on the
way back to our apartment building we
had a temporary apartment and there was
an old man who had to walk with a crutch
with a young prostitute I mean she
wasn't you know she wasn't illegal young
and she was way out so the guy was the
good guy looked 80
he was probably 76 or something and he
was in such bad shape that he had to
have the prostitute hold his cane and
lean on the prostitute shoulder with one
arm and kind of limp on one leg to get
into the elevator with the prostitute
and the prostitute looked at us we were
just walking past on the sidewalk
these guys were getting into the
elevator and there Harmelin we could see
them very clearly this exasperate an
expression her face this was clearly
beneath her dignity to have a client who
was so physically enfeebled and unable
and that old guy he was he sorry he was
white and the woman was Thai he didn't
feel as as beneath his
is they gonna be at all right I mean you
know he felt he was gung-ho to go this
is the highlight of his week you know
what they say here about me we'll just
just go ahead and enjoy your meet look
back to me young look it is totally
debatable I mean there are definitely
relationships between prostitutes and
their clients where nobody feels
disrespected and nobody feels exploited
you can insert this and there's a huge
feminist literature about that by the
way any academic library is gonna have
this Pro sex worker discourse and stuff
but you know no I think anyone really
has the question you know what it means
to have a life of dignity and like look
I mean when I get there I may be old and
ugly and alone one day you know and you
have to ask yourself this question
my sense of moral dignity maybe at this
stage of my life in these circumstances
it means living in celibacy and devoting
myself to the pleasures of the mind or
what have you you know what I mean maybe
there's something else at stake here
no pun intended other than just you know
sensual indulgence and you know I raised
that back when I was an even more
hot-blooded young man I'm cursed with a
high sex drive which melissa is witness
to but back when I was even younger and
and fitter you know I wrote those
articles talking about prostitution in
the humanitarian industry we said no
damn it if you're gonna come out here
and do humanitarian work if you're gonna
commit to if you are going to commit to
handing out sacks of rice to starving
people or all these other humanitarian
projects why can't you commit to being
celibate for those six months or three
months a lot of them are really short
assignments most of those people are in
the field for six weeks it's not even
that long you know but whatever even if
it is six months to say no while I'm in
this village full of starving people I'm
here to help them period and do this
research and hand out you know there are
other priorities right now and I'm not
gonna cross this line and of course it's
not we're not talking about a lifelong
vow of celibacy you know but I mean and
and you know since then
that's come up a lot with United Nations
workers and United Nations soldiers
deployed to different areas and you know
it's it's a question the whole the whole
generation has to ask itself so you know
I can't say to those guys you know well
you know go on enjoy yourselves or
something you know I mean that's that's
so much more into a gray area than meat
because there's no way the cow consented
to this this is not a consenting adult
situation this is a clear victim Victor
situation you can feel good about what
you're eating and you know how
somebody's suggesting to respect your
food after you know what goes into it
like how wasteful it is how cruel it is
just unethical it is I mean the only
justification for this that I see is
you're a good person even if you eat me
right I'm sorry but I mean if you like I
said if you compare somebody who you
know is identical to someone else except
that they don't eat meat what do you
think is the the better thing to do
morally what do you think is the right
thing to do how do you want to live your
life and like you say who do you want to
be do you want to be someone that does
respect something respectable or not
somebody who wants okay but look so are
you I think this is bringing back to
another fundamental form of misdirection
that's in in the the claim here that
it's about respecting the meat you know
that old man getting into the elevator
with the prostitute and it was a
striking scene just visually of him
leaning with all his weight on this
prostitute and her really not you're
just being disgusted you know ultimately
her feeling this but it was very obvious
those situation it's not about
respecting the prostitute right it's
about respecting yourself but I mean if
this advice for the meat eater do you
respect yourself for the ethical choice
you're making the ethical choice the
ecological choice the health choice all
the things that are rolled up this you
know what do you mean you respect the
meat what what are you talking about and
again like I say sorry bring it back to
my friend but what I call him Tom or Ted
or whatever the fake name
who was really mentally screwed up by
sleeping with prostitutes at an early
age when he was still a teenager losing
his virginity with prostitutes I have no
reason to think those prostitutes were
traumatized you know like let's just
assume for them it was their 500th
clients and you know what he was
probably polite and well-behaved and
Timmy he was losing his virginity
probably was not a very memorable client
client for them anyway
no in no way is this about respecting or
disrespecting the prostitute there's a
question of do you respect yourself
are you a respectable person is this
good you know for you and yeah in a
broader sense for Society for planet
Earth as a whole what if all what if all
75 year old men were sleeping with 21
year old prostitutes all what if that
was a universal widely attested thing in
our society which it obviously is in
some parts of Thailand not everywhere
but in some worth well you have a huge
generation of geriatrics who were also
who it doesn't just have impacts for one
person it transformed society now what
if you have a society where everyone is
quote unquote respecting their media
making excuses or millions of people are
eating millions of steak this has in
fact so again there were all these other
questions here even if we treat it as
morally neutral the actual relationship
between man and meat between you know
customer and prostitute which of course
it isn't I mean of course it is I just
think like are you really comfortable
with somebody be comfortable explaining
this to a child right and what would
they expect the child to say you know I
didn't even tell you this I didn't even
tell you this today i sat down in a
salad restaurant so I'm not gonna name
the restaurant you know which restaurant
I mean it's a restaurant they basically
do salad it's their specialized thing
and I hear the voice of someone next to
me I was reading I had Aristotle and it
was reading Aristotle when I was making
some notes and I had an idea for a
YouTube video it was another things one
and I hear this person sit down next to
me who has a peculiar accent and she is
explaining how there's very little for
her to eat there because she's now on
the Paleo diet
so yeah I don't even look at her but she
is you know she's having fun explaining
to her friend they're obviously out on a
lunch date like two female friends are
out for lunch
oh well you know I can't relate this
stuff at this thing reason and when I'm
packing up to leave you know put him up
I just turn slow and look and see what
is it's the same a [ __ ] employee for
Amnesty International who lectured me
about human rights it was trying to get
me to donate money to invest
International it's not the same type of
person it's the same person yeah and she
had this totally surreal dialogue with
me about the ethics of veganism you know
and I I didn't know if she I'm pretty
easy to recognize but yeah I just I'm
not even gonna make eye contact yeah we
had a pretty long conversation there
aren't that many guys who look like me
yeah I was wearing the vegan patch and
everything today so I'm just you know
and she was literally lecturing how
there's not much to eat there cuz you
know skill chat is an online learning
community with over 20,000 classes in
all kinds of cool stuff so that was the
moral of the story in this video whoo
coming up on one hour flat
does anything you'd like to insert an
advertisement for at the end of this
video no advertising broccoli broccoli
hey but by my story book guys buy my
story alright I talked to an artist
I talked to an artist today on Instagram
I just noticed there is profiles well
you know I'm still here for an artist so
yeah it's a real open question can we do
can we do something like a Kickstarter
some kind of what is the word
crowdfunding campaign to get a couple
thousand bucks for the artists because
the reality in in a you know book like
this they're the artist is not gonna
make any money after things published
you know we can write the most generous
contract in the world guess what 15% of
nothing is too
nothing but you know it's really Ken the
artist time and energy be be rewarded
upfront and you know back in the day my
plan was to the Kickstarter
I was gonna pay Richard I was gonna pay
vegan gains to advertise you know the
story book on his on his channel
yeah but then Richard you know cut off
all communication in cooperation with me
because I'm too anti-racist
I talk I'm too much against racism so he
didn't he wasn't having that
but yeah it's uh it's an open question I
mean I do think that's something where I
could pay for advertising or try to get
some other you know some other channels
clout behind supporting a new artist to
take on the story book after the old
artist flunked out of the project see
how loud you guys will notice we just
put up the Swedish translation and
that's still something I'm looking
around to do although the reality is
basically I am poor I cannot pay this
artists out-of-pocket yeah we just gave
up on the bread baking college situation
and we're now in the midst of a
tumultuous process of planning our next
relocation and I still gotta I still
gotta buy video games for my daughter no
I think I think you'd have to do
t-shirts that were tied specifically to
the book that'd be the way to do it so
you I just mentioned if you know that's
interesting if you do a kick stove that
that's what I said to the artist to I
said you take a couple of the drawings
and then you offer them whether it's on
t-shirts hats or posters it's okay if
you pay in advance to support the book
we'll give you right now like a poster
in a t-shirt with this image on it maybe
it's the cover of the book or one of the
illustrations in the book and then it's
maybe six months later or a year later
the book will be done and you'll get
that okay so that they have something
right away for their donation yeah so
there you go guys that's what I got to
pitch and that is ultimately the
solution this problem is having human
beings get educated from an earlier age
about the fundamental facts of life so
they don't have to live in denial of
them and and make these ridiculous
excuses from later
[Music]